---
layout: post
title: "Smush Image Attachments"
category: utility
date: 2014-09-06 00:00:00
comments: false
short: "Runs yahoo smush.it compression on your sites attachments"
license: MPL 1.1
version: 1.0.0
allhooks: yes
elkversion: 1.0
author: "spuds"
thumbnail:
download: https://github.com/Spuds/Elk-Smush.it/archive/master.zip
images:
---

## Introduction:
This adds the ability to run Yahoo's Smushit service on your attachments. Smush.it uses optimization techniques specific to each image format to remove unnecessary bytes from image files. It is a "lossless" tool, which means it optimizes the images without changing their look or visual quality. Typical savings are in the 5-20% file size reduction. After Smush.it runs it will report how many bytes have been saved as well as the percent reduction for each file. Smaller files save bandwidth, disk space and make your forum faster.

In your admin panel you will need to enable it, and set the various misery options in percent.  You will find the settings under Security and Moderation -> Misery

## Features:

-  Ability to run Smush.it on all current attachments in a batch mode (based on attachment age/size)
  -  Admin->Forum->Attachments & Avatars->File Maintenance
-  Ability to selectively run Smush.it on any single or selection of attachments
  -  Admin->Forum->Attachments & Avatars->Browse->Smush.it
-  Can run as a scheduled task to Smush.it attachments added in the last 24hrs
  -  Admin->Maintenance->Scheduled Tasks

##Important Notes

-  Yahoo's Smush.it service will not accept files >1M in size, as such no size reduction on those files is possible with this addon
-  Unable to copy the attachment file for processing: This means that the smushit directory is not writable, check its permissions and change as needed (no more than 755 if you are running suPHP/suExec (higher permissions will cause a server 500 error) otherwise 766 / 777 may be required depending on how your host is set up)
-  Unable to copy the Smush.it file back to the attachment directory: This generally indicates that the original attachment file was saved with permissions (or owner/group) that will not allow the forum to replace it.  This can occur if the attachments were FTP-ed to the site or your site changed how PHP is run.  You will need to change the file permissions as needed (664 or 666)
-  Smush.it returned the following error: Failed to create a temp dir: This means what it says, e.g. Smush.it is unavailable at the current time, all you can do is try again later
-  I ran Smush.it and now the file does not show up in the browse list! This means the file was reduced in size below your lower size setting (admin -> configuration -> modification settings -> misc -> Attempt to Sumsh.it all attachments larger than)

## Installation:
{% include install_std.MD %}

### License:
{% include license.MD param="MPL 1.1" %}